---
layout: post
title: Yin and Yang
permalink: /yinyang/
---

The Taoists believe the Yin Yang symbol represents Being. Now Being is not the same thing as reality, Being is what you experience is a conscious creature. For the Taoist, being is made up of Order and Chaos. And the reason for that is quite straightforward, the reason for that is wherever you go, whoever you are, each environment that you're in is composed of things you understand and things that work the way you expect them to, and things that you do not understand and that can pull the rug out from under you at any moment. 

And so you can say in some sense that these symbolic representations are representations of the most unchanging elements of Being. So the most real things. Because well, the typical modern person would look at this and think 'those aren't real'. They are real. In fact they are **hyperreal**, because one of the things that defines real is that it's permanent. And it *is* permanent, no matter where you go there are things you know and things you don't know, and it doesn't matter who you are, it's permanent. It's part of the existential landscape of human Being.

There are other things that are quite cool about the yin yang symbol and one is that the black paisley has a little white dot in it, and the white paisly has a little black dot in it, and the reason for that is that the Taoists recognize quite rightly that chaos could turn to order at any moment. New order can arise out of a chaotic structure, that's a revolution in some sense. But by the same token, if you're in a place that's orderly and predictable something can happen that casts you into a chaotic situation right away. Even though these two things oppose eachother in some sense, there's a continual dynamic interplay between them. 

There's a final thing that's quite interesting about this symbol, and this is a mind bogglingly brilliant idea. Tao also means 'the way', and the Way is the line between the two. What that indicates is that the optimal position for a human being isn't in chaos, or in order, because if it's too much order then it's totalitarian, and if it's too much chaos then it's disgust, and fear, and emotional pain and depression. So where's the proper place? The Taoist answer is right on the line. One foot in order, so that you're fairly stable, and another foot in chaos so that new, interesting, compelling and transformative things are happening to you. And one of the things you might note is that your nervous system basically tells you when you're there, by making you interested in whatever you're engaged in. The fact that the thing, whatever it is that you're interested in *grips you*, which is quite an unconscious process -- you can't really control that, it's something that happens to you, is that your nervous system, which is adapted to an environment of chaos and order, is telling you that if you're engaged and interested, you *are* in the place where this balance of chaos and order is perfect. 

Think about it: there's no use reading a paper that you can't understand, even though hypothetically this paper would be very informative to you. But you can't understand it, it's all chaos to you. And then there's abolutely no reason reading a paper for the tenth time if you've already extracted all the information out of it, it's going to be boring. You want a paper that you can almost understand. So that the cognitive frameworks you have at hand are sufficient for you to take the next step into the unknown. Books, movies, conversations, even lines of thought do that. If they're exactly at the right level of complexity for you, they're going to engage you.
